# Regular aeon Developer Meeting (late) - May 19, 2023
###### tags: `aeon-regular-dev-meeting`

#### May 19, 2023 @ 05:00PM UTC
#### Previous meeting: https://hackmd.io/@aeon-toolkit/SJ1E3xm73

Present: AJB, MM, AF, GB

### Topics


- [MM] Previous actions:
    1. Read governance PR, comment, approve, request changes and have a core dev vote if necessary. Communicate with NumFOCUS after if possible for ideas.
        - Matthew to post 2 week warning in Slack for merge on Workgroups PR.
        
    2. Write a couple of projects for interns (with lancaster). Forecasting and annotation/outlier detection. 
       Ideas: 
       a) deep learning for forecasting
       b) lancaster forecasting
       c) annotation (changepoint, anomaly, outlier detection)
        - Tony and Leo met with Ivan from Lancaster on putting about together a project. 
        - Tony to chase

    3. Plan a core dev meeting for the summer if possible
        - Tony to mail UCL
        
    4. Put together a proposal for PyData Amsterdam for Chris (and one other) for the distances module
        - https://amsterdam.pydata.org/
        - Deadline June 11
        - Application on track.
        
    5. Ask Markus for PyData global proposal
        - Available on sktime community GitHub
        
    6. Form a list of meetings and times for Pydata events and other possible talks
        - https://github.com/aeon-toolkit/aeon/pull/389
        
    7. Read the benchmarking PR, decide if it can be used for machine learning use cases
        - PR merged, with a few tweaks should be able to apply for the machine learning side
        - PR to remove old benchmarking code, PR currently approved but should be left up for comment for a while
        
- [MM] aeon Estimator map
    - https://github.com/aeon-toolkit/aeon/issues/145
    - Slowly build up, would be nice to embed links to examples/API eventually
    - Guzal to create draft PR
    - Tony/Matthew to provide feedback on machine learning package sections

- [MM] Loaders for popular forecasting datasets
    - Maybe should have specific loaders for uploaded versions of M4 and M5
    - Should create issue.

### Need decision

N/A

### Need attention (reviews)

Workgroups Gov PR (https://github.com/aeon-toolkit/aeon/pull/389)

### Action items

1. Matthew to post 2 week warning in Slack for merge on Workgroups PR.
2. Tony to chase Leo/Ivan about the forecasting intern proposal
3. Tony to mail UCL about venues and update them regarding core developer meetup
4. Application on track, Tony and Chris to notify when submission is made.
5. Create draft PR on visual package overview
6. Create issue on dataset loading/writing

### Previous Action items

Covered in topics.

### Next meeting date

June 02, 2023 @ 12:00PM UTC
