# aeon meeting 30/03/23
###### tags: `aeon`

[previous meeting](https://hackmd.io/@pdRYq3BhRg-1-_rXzALxRg/Syl82jlZn)

Suggested agenda/discussion points

### 1. aeon logo

Competition should have concluded. What do people like? Is there a stand-out best, or do we need a poll?

All submissions available at: https://www.crowdspring.com/logo-design/logo-design-for-an-open-source-software-project-2955031/entries/

Top 5:
- #41
- #30
- #29
- #62
- #82

https://www.crowdspring.com/logo-design/logo-design-for-an-open-source-software-project-2955031/entries/?entries_filter_checkboxes_score=4&entries_sort=-created_at&keep_grouping=true&keep_view_type=true

__TODO:__ decide on recommended changes for each, then select them as finalists.

### 2. Regular developer meetings

When would the best time be for these general developer meetings? How regular should they be?

Module specific developer meetings as needed if someone wants to call one (i.e. previous meeting by Tony to start with classification)

__MW__: (from 3/3/23 meeting) I think would be good to have a general community meeting (standup and get2know of 15 minutes) frequently to welcome new people. We could rotate in who is moderating the meeting.

__MM__: I think a monthly developer meeting to catch up and update on important topics would be good (i.e. first Friday of the month or similar). I am flexible for time/date.

__TODO:__ Set up bi-weekly developer meetings Friday 17:00 UTC meetings for now. Good to show up but attendance is optional, join for topics that interest you.

### 3. First release:

Version v0.1.0?

Shouldnt release without some good features or proposals to advertise

First release headline features:
- Pandas 2.0 good feature for release, should wait for this at least
- Roadmaps for certain modules
    - global forecasting (https://github.com/sktime/sktime/issues/3224#issuecomment-1227669136)
    - regression module (deep learners)
    - transformers

Actual release date undecided. Should check with developers for must-have inclusions.

### 4. aeon governance:

Please put your thoughts in [this issue](https://github.com/scikit-time/scikit-time/issues/2)

current roles:
- Core developer
- Community council (CC)
- CC observer
- Code of conduct committee (CoCC)
- Algorithm maintainer (in codeowners file)

__Lukasz__: (from 3/3/23 meeting) I would be in favour of adjusting the bar for becoming a core dev to sth like: if you made a non-trivial contribution to the project you get write permission and become a committer. I would very much like to have a technical team/committee responsible for bigger decisions regarding technical roadmap and strategy and providing guidance and coaching to the community members. It is also a good opportunity to discuss the responsibilities of CC since I'm not sure I understand what was the role before. We need to give someone admin/ownership of digital resources and ideally that group would make a commitment to tenure to avoid gaps, who that should ideally be is up for discussion. Lastly I do not see value in specific role of algorithm maintainer, it creates territorial behaviours which might be counterproductive. I'm interested in using CODEOWNERS file as a mechanism to "subscribe" to notification about specific module/file changes so that I can be in the loop for reviewing PRs and participating in discussions.

__MM__: I mostly align with Lukasz when it comes to updating governance im pretty sure. See PR [#195](https://github.com/aeon-toolkit/aeon/pull/195)

Discussion on BDFL was had, to be continued in the issue. Consensus was that while it has its advantages, no one would be acceptable by everyone for the role.

Agreed that CC observer and algorithm maintainer roles are not necessary.

__TODO:__ comment on issue and PR above. 
 
## Potential topics: 

### ?. Roadmaps:

Do we want a roadmap for each module? e.g. https://hackmd.io/7hzbOJGBRhSCJDEuZWs7kg
        
### ?. Docs:
Tony: I'm not clear how it all gets generated, where it goes etc, some clarification would help

    1. docs module: sphinx builds html pages and puts them on readthedocs, which is redirected to a website by a hook? All the files in docs are manually maintained 
    2. docstrings: written to the api as determined by api_reference
    3. examples and docs/source/examples: examples directory manually maintained and only viewable through the source code. docs/source/examples autogenerated from docs. 
    4. Root Dir: mark down files linked from readme
    README.md
    CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
    CODEOWNERS
    CONTRIBUTING.md
    ESTIMATOR_OVERVIEW.md
    estimator_overview_table.md
    GOVERNANCE.md
    LICENCE


### ?. Mission statement:

__TODO__

Hello sktime community,

Eight of the core developers from the sktime project, including two community council members, are splitting from the project. The new repository will be a fork of the v0.16.0 sktime release. This decision was reached after much consideration and was influenced by various factors, including design decisions and interactions between developers.
We understand that some of the recent communication between sktime developers may have been perceived as hostile, and we apologize for any discomfort this may have caused. Our aim is to create a positive and collaborative environment for everyone involved in the project going forward.
Our new toolkit will be called `aeon`. 
With `aeon`, we have an opportunity to refocus on our core values and make significant changes. While a lot will remain the same in the new project, the first release will have some breaking changes compared to sktime to meet our new design philosophy. We invite all members of the community to provide their input and share their ideas on how they would like to see the project evolve. We start with these principles:
a. Our governance structure will be simple and non-hierarchical.
b. Our code will lightweight and easy to maintain.
c. Our approach will be friendly and inclusive.