# Regular aeon Developer Meeting (early) - Aug 25, 2023
###### tags: `aeon-regular-dev-meeting`

#### Aug 25, 2023 @ 12:00PM UTC
#### Previous meeting: https://hackmd.io/@aeon-toolkit/BkBQnt3_h

Present: MM AF

### Topics

- A lot of people on holiday or taking breaks, so no meetings previous weeks. People still off at some points in September. Writing down updates here for record keeping purposes.
- [MM] September London meetup
    - Meetup schedules for September 5th, room available from from 9am-5pm
    - Enough room for 8 people and Teams enabled with a large screen
    - MM to contact UCL for more details
    - Grant can reimburse for travel and food in most cases
    - Potential topics:
        - Governance structure
        - plan for pyData talks
        - time line for numFOCUS application
        - plan for conference tutorials
        - plan for forecasting module enhancements and grant involvement in forecasting (deep learning intern)
        - plan for teaching module based on aeon
        - Deprecation policy: when to introduce and what it is
        - New similarity search module
        - New condensing/averaging time series module
        - Anomaly detection and the annotation module
    - Should create a roadmap for the project? Does not need to be massively formal 
- [MM] aeon distances PyData talk
    - Talk was accepted, to be given by Tony and Chris on Saturday 16th September
    - https://amsterdam.pydata.org/program/#2023-09-16
- [AF] Deep learning clustering
    - AF to contact Strasburg intern for updates and discussion
    - We should implement some framework beforehand to reduce the complexity for implementing the algorithms
- [AF] Averaging module?
    - Issue to be created for discussion. Has uses outside of clustering, so may be better in a different module
    - Can discuss further with everyone at London meetup


### Needs decision

N/A

### Needs attention (reviews)

N/A

### Action items

1. AF to create issue on potential averaging module
2. MM to update and create discussion topics for London meetup
3. MM to look at #402

### Previous Action items

1. Create issue for new base class between BaseEstimator and machine learning base classes, needs a name!
   - PR drafted and up for discussion https://github.com/aeon-toolkit/aeon/pull/650
   
### Next meeting date

September 05, 2023
September 08, 2023 @ 12:00PM UTC (Regular dev meeting)