# Regular aeon Developer Meeting (late) - Jun 16, 2023
###### tags: `aeon-regular-dev-meeting`

#### Jun 16, 2023 @ 05:00PM UTC
#### Previous meeting: https://hackmd.io/@aeon-toolkit/r1txU1BSh

Present: MM, LT

### Topics

- [MM] Previous actions
    - Matthew to merge Workgroups PR
        - Merged, reviews required for full governance document in #195
        - Topic for an in person meeting if not resolved
    - Matthew to chase Tony on Forecasting Intern, UCL and PyData
        - PyData Amsterdam application made for a 30 minute talk on distances
        - Waiting for email from UCL regarding meetup? Best dates seem to be July 3rd and July 10th
        - Still need update on forecasting intern?
    - Matthew to create issue for M4/M5/Regressors dataset loading/writing
        - Tony created a PR adding loaders. Writers extended to regression
        - PR merged https://github.com/aeon-toolkit/aeon/pull/478
    - Other
        - Work ongoing on package vis, no need to rush or track here
        - DL work ongoing, create issues. no need to track here. Notebook PR and PAA PR made.

- [MM] Anomaly detection
    - Annotation is a module the TSML group wants to look at after summer when classification/regression/clustering are up to date.
    - Interesting post by Patrick in Slack about potential collaboration with group which have implemented many anomaly detection algorithms. Should discuss with Patrick at some point.
    - Previously Eamonn Keogh set up a competition for anomaly detection algorithm. We should contact and try get code, data and results if possible.
    - Competition https://compete.hexagon-ml.com/practice/competition/39/#
    - Presentations https://forums.hexagon-ml.com/t/multi-dataset-time-series-anomaly-detection/591/124 

### Needs decision

N/A

### Needs attention (reviews)

https://github.com/aeon-toolkit/aeon/pull/195

### Action items

- Update on in person meeting. Is July too short notice at this point? August/September may be better
- Discuss with Patrick about Anomaly detection and contact Eamonn

### Previous Action items

- Matthew to merge Workgroups PR
- Matthew to chase Tony on Forecasting Intern, UCL and PyData
- Matthew to create issue for M4/M5/Regressors dataset loading/writing
- Guzal to create draft PR on visual package overview, others review
- Ali to do the network module testing
- Ali to port in deep learning regressors
- Ali to do the notebook of deep learning in general + model loading/saving
- Ali PAA refactor

### Next meeting date

Jun 30, 2023 @ 12:00PM UTC
