# Regular aeon Developer Meeting (late) - Feb 23, 2024
###### tags: `aeon-regular-dev-meeting`

#### Feb 23, 2024 @ 05:00PM UTC
#### Previous meeting: https://hackmd.io/@aeon-toolkit/ry1YyVbcp

Present: MM TB CH AF

### Topics

- [CH] Workflow caching
    - CH has put together a PR for caching numba functions, which would be a significant speed up
    - MM to review
- [AF] Networks lack of coverage
    - Some networks are not covered according to codecov, but look as if they should be
    - AF to provide example and open issue
- [AF] shapeDTW
    - shapeDTW implementation for classification is incorrect
    - Everyone present fine if someone wants to replace it
- [TB] Create an issue for deprecation for 0.8.0
    - TB to create issues to track deprecation items for 0.8.0 and 0.9.0
- [MM] pydata london
    - MM and TB to put together proposal for classification module next week
    - https://pydata.org/london2024/cfp
- [MM] GSoC release 
    - 0.7.1 release to update documentation

### Needs decision

N/A

### Needs attention (reviews)

[#849](https://github.com/aeon-toolkit/aeon/pull/849)

### Action items

- PyData London proposal
- TB to track deprecations
- AF to open networks coverage issue
- MM to make GSoC documentation release

### Previous Action items

- Release posts were reviewed by devs and posted by AG on LinkedIn and Twitter
- Discussion had on London PyData, other events to follow

### Next meeting date

Mar 08, 2024
