# Sep 27, 2024: aeon Module Meeting (Anomaly Detection)
###### tags: `aeon-module-meeting`

#### Sep 27, 2024 @ 12:00PM UTC
#### Previous meeting: N/A

Present: MM SS TB DT

### Topics

- [MM] Collection anomaly detection/outlier detection
    - Part of anomaly_detection, **subpackage** or its own package (outlier_detection?)
    - Suggestion:
        - `aeon.anomaly_detection` for both with subpackages `series` (for subsequence AD) and `collection` (for whole-series AD)
        - many methods can actually be used for both cases with different preprocessing
- [SS] online/streaming?
    - currently, there is no plan to support streaming
- [MM] When to remove the experimental tag?
    - visible user base
    - algorithm per method family
    - notebook and documentation ready
- [SS] Should algorithms be tagged with metadata or are the tags just used for functional?
    - rather use subpackages
    - but subpackages are just required if we have enough algorithms implements
    - one could use the `algorithm_type`-tag for the diff. method families
- [SS] Do we want to have individual algorithm classes for algorithms that use the `PyODAdapter`, such as LOF, IsolationForest?
    - just if the algorithm is important and deserves visibility

### Needs decision

N/A

### Needs attention (reviews)

N/A

### Action items

- [x] [SS] look through survey papers and look if our issues cover all families (good algorithms)
- [x] [SS] create issues for `PyODAdapter`-instances
- [ ] [MM] create issue for streaming (no current plans to implement)
- [ ] [MM] create issue for collection AD
- [ ] [MM] Update AEP with current state and experimental tag discussion

### Previous Action items

N/A

### Next meeting date

- Friday, 2024-11-08
