# Regular aeon Developer Meeting (early) - Sep 20, 2024
###### tags: `aeon-regular-dev-meeting`

#### Sep 20, 2024 @ 12:00PM UTC
#### Previous meeting: https://hackmd.io/@aeon-toolkit/ByvfR5AvC

Present: MM SS TB CH AF

### Topics

- [MM] Testing introduction
    - Notes: Stuff to include in the testing documentation:
        - just applies to estimators (that inherit from `BaseEstimator`)
        - PR_TESTING flag
          - what does it do?
          - when to use it in local checks?
          - how to use it locally?
        - How the general checks are executed
          - when are tests skipped? when dependencies are missing, or if they are excluded
          - then there are different kind of checks (base checks, soft deps, for each base class)
          - there are tests on the classes
          - then, there are tests on the instances
          - there can be multiple instances per estimator depending on the parameter sets (see `get_test_params()`)
        - What to test where (local in general testing)?
        - How to add a new module to the testing?
        - How to run tests just for a single estimator (while developing the said estimator)?
        - How to run _a_ test on _one_ estimator?
- [TB] Suggested new meeting schedule
    - 12 week cycle:
        - Classification and regression
        - Clustering
        - Anomaly detection and segmentation
        - Similarity search and distances
        - Forecasting
        - Datasets and benchmarking
        - Networks and deep learning
        - Transformations
        - Visualisation and performance metrics
        - Testing, github, release, conda/pypi etc (maintenance)
        - Governance, communications, finance
        - AoB/Suggested/Super special topics (pydata, tutorials, fixing utils, motif discovery, domain-adaptation, self-supervised, ...)
    - 12:00 UTC
    - I suggest the following agenda for meetings:
        1. Open PRs
        2. Bugs
        3. Issues
        4. Documentation
        5. Coverage
        6. Roadmap
        7. AOB (new modules etc)
    - Come of with roadmaps for each module and how to collect a list of future additions
    - regular meeting moved to monthly 11:00 UTC


### Needs decision

- #2073 (license change)

### Needs attention (reviews)

### Action items

### Previous Action items

### Next meeting date
