# Nov 08, 2024 aeon Module Meeting (Anomaly Detection)
###### tags: `aeon-module-meeting`

#### Nov 08, 2024 @ 01:00PM UTC
#### Previous meeting: https://hackmd.io/@aeon-toolkit/SJsBk5g0R

Present: MM TB SS CH AF PM

### Topics

- [MM] subpackage names
    - i.e.
        - "collection" and "series"
        - "whole_series", "point", "subsequence", "correlation"
        - "unsupervised", "supervised", "semi-supervised"
    - All of the above could be used probably, but want to avoid something like `from anomaly_detection.series.subsequence.unsupervised.deep_learning import`
    - I'm pretty sure we agreed somthing like this last time, but just confirming:
        - "whole_series"/"collection", "forecasting", "reconstruction", "encoding", "distance", "distribution", "isolation_tree"(?), "deep_learning"

- [SS] Deep learning anomaly detection base
    - PR #2125
    - If self-supervised we have a specific module for that coming up
    - Forecasting based, Ali to leave a comment on the PR about structure
    
- [MM] Collection anomaly detection/outlier detection
    - OC-SVM first (point-based detection, series estimator)
    - there is another student working on ROCK-AD (whole-sequence AD, collection estimator)
    - Set up meeting with Andreas regarding whole-series
    - MM to make PR on whole-series base class


We then proceed the go off-topic and discuss Docker and numba compilation :)

### Needs decision

N/A

### Needs attention (reviews)

N/A

### Action items

- [ ] [MM] create issue for streaming (no current plans to implement, from previous meeting)
- [ ] [MM] create issue for collection AD
- [ ] [MM] Update AEP with current state and experimental tag discussion
- [ ] [MM] create issue for subpackages in anomaly detection
- [x] [MM] Set up draft PR for whole-series anomaly detection
- [x] [TB] Contract Andreas about meeting
- [x] [SS] Create issue for Docker image (Numba caching): [#2324](https://github.com/aeon-toolkit/aeon/issues/2324)

### Previous Action items

- [x] [SS] look through survey papers and look if our issues cover all families (good algorithms)
- [x] [SS] create issues for `PyODAdapter`-instances
- [ ] [MM] create issue for streaming (no current plans to implement)
- [ ] [MM] create issue for collection AD
- [ ] [MM] Update AEP with current state and experimental tag discussion

### Next meeting date

?
