# General aeon Developer Meeting - Jul 18, 2025
###### tags: `aeon-regular-dev-meeting`

#### Jul 18, 2025 @ 12:00PM UTC
#### Previous meeting: https://hackmd.io/@aeon-toolkit/r1P9unabge

Present: MM CH AF BM AB 

### Topics

- [MM] NumFOCUS applications
    - Aim is to apply for fiscal sponsorship a the next October deadline
    - https://hackmd.io/E_cC9StdQtqSJPoMdqgfJg
    - some tasks (but not all):
        - The publicly visible location of your roadmap
            - See next topic
        - The names and email addresses of five people willing to act as signatories for your project
            - MM and AF willing. Assumed TB will be as well. Need 2 more
        - The name of your project's leadership body
            - Just core developers?
        - A physical mailing address for your project
            - MM opinion: probably Soton, thats where a lot of the driving force has come from and many developers since the split. Nothing will actually be sent here its just listing where we are based
        - Link to your project's blog or newsletter
            - Assumed TB and AG will work on this, discussion in comms channel
    - Many other questions. Help is appreciated putting this together
- [MM] Roadmaps
    - https://hackmd.io/@aeon-toolkit/H1p4ydXGgl/edit
    - Needs a public roadmap for the NumFOCUS application. Good to have one for each module, then a more focused/prioritised general aeon roadmap
    - Anomaly detection has a readmap from the last module meeting
    - CH willing to write some for Clustering and Distances, Ali for Networks and aeon generally, TB and AB to work on Forecasting, AG on Similarity Search, MM can do classification and regression
    - Remaining: Benchmarking, Datasets, Segmentation, Transformation, Visualisation
    - Not including utilities i.e. testing and pipeline. Do not have to do it for some of the above possibly.
- [AF] Grant update
    - Aiming to start October hoperfully
    - Time to advertise new post, some current devs may be interested but not a remote role
    - Germain fine with becoming a core dev

### Needs decision

N/A

### Needs attention (reviews)

N/A

### Action items

N/A

### Previous Action items

N/A

### Next meeting date

25/07/2025